base Design
To manage customer data and job details, you'll need a relational database. Here are the key entities and attributes you should consider:
Customer:
CustomerID (Primary Key)
Name
Address
Phone
Email
Job:
JobID (Primary Key)
CustomerID (Foreign Key)
JobSize
Price
Status
ScheduledDate
Employee:
EmployeeID (Primary Key)
Name
ContactInfo
JobAssignment:
AssignmentID (Primary Key)
JobID (Foreign Key)
EmployeeID (Foreign Key)
AssignmentDate
This structure will allow you to efficiently manage customer information, job details, and employee assignments.
Website Development
For the website, you should consider using a web development framework to streamline the process. Popular frameworks include:
Frontend: React, Angular, or Vue.js for building a dynamic user interface.
Backend: Node.js, Django, or Ruby on Rails for handling server-side logic and database interactions.
The website should allow customers to:
Enter their information and job requests.
View job status and history.
Update their contact details.
Mapping Integration
Integrate Google Maps to visualize job locations and optimize routes for field service crews. This can be done using CRM software like Pipedrive, which offers Google Maps integration to display customer locations and plan efficient routes.
Field Service Management
To manage field service operations, consider using a CRM system that supports task assignment and tracking. This will help you send job details to your field service crew and track job progress in real-time.
Additional Features
In-App Support: Consider adding in-app customer support features to resolve user issues quickly and improve customer satisfaction.
Mobile App: If your budget allows, developing a mobile app can enhance accessibility for both customers and field service crews.